Have a blast as a Bubbler

Towards the end of February, I suddenly realized that the summer has gone, what it comes along is the finish of my internship program. Looking back, this summer was hot, as usual, what is different is that I chill myself out by working in a cool place with a group of cool people aiming at bringing creativity into the world. The place is called Redbubble. 

At First Sight
Before I join, I caught a glimpse of the workplace, it has funky graffiti and stylish painting on the wall, colourful decoration and comfortable couch at every corner, the place was full of character. I can’t help image what the people would be like there.   

Dec.5th was the day to unveil the answer! I was welcomed by the team and many new people I came across. I also knew three other interns who started a bit earlier than me. Through the induction, I get to know the many interesting activities going on there apart from work, such as video lunch, coding dojo, daily meditation, book club, etc, which is focused on the growth of every individual. 

Into Data science 
I started as a Data Science Intern at discovery team. This team is focused on empowering users to discover their things at Redbubble. In the beginning week, I got in touched with biqQuery, the analytics data warehouse on Google Cloud. Through small tasks of analysing the website visits and search keywords, I am getting increasingly excited about the real big industry data and curious about what underlying patterns are.  

From the second week of my internship, I was able to hit the ground with a real project, building knowledge graph of semantic relationship of the tags. In the Redbubble database, there are millions of artworks, each one is denoted with a number of tags by the artist. Therefore, understanding the relationship of the tag is fundamental to our knowledge about artworks.   

So the intern is on mission! 

I started the project with research to understand the mainstream approaches and challenges in building semantic relationships of tag knowledge graph. With deeper delve into the research, especially with proof of concept on the demo of tag similarity, the team gets more excited about how we could do to improve user experience by utilizing knowledge in tags. 

Pairing
The next step is to make the system scalable on Google Cloud Platform, to do this, I paired with two of my fellows Jakob and Adam. During the exploration, we accumulated valuable experience with DataFlow and cracked different challenges that come along. 

For me, what is more rewarding is the pairing. It not only inspires the good ideas from the other, but provides a valuable feedback to the individual by observing how the different others are organizing and tackling problems. 

Connect to people through arts
At Redbubble, we are not only thrilled by cracking problems and solving puzzles, we are really passionate about arts and the way it helps connect to people. 

At Redbubble, it is a common conversation ‘judging’ fellows’ newly acquired art treasures.

I remembered as a newcomer, I attended the session Meeting the Chief, where everyone including our CEO Martin shared their choice of purchased artworks and reason why they love it. It is amazing to hear their stories behind the artworks, it could be a clock that is used to decorate the new house, it could be a space-cat tee that expresses enthusiasm towards the unknown space, or a lovely tote bag for a family member for Christmas. In that moment, I felt connected to these people by sharing their joy, curiosity, happiness. 

Grow together with the talents
I’ve met many amazing engineers at Redbubble. When taking a close look, I realized it is those talented people who have the strongest curiosity and eager to learn. 

At Redbubble, every individual will not be confined to a single area. The engineers can choose the direction based on their interest to develop their expertise, from undertaking different challenges, pairing with engineers with different background, technical development training, or self-learning. Video lunch, coding dojos, study groups are the perfect opportunities to uncover hidden gems in different areas. 
 
I joined Video lunch on Machine Learning course on a weekly base. Although I had undertaken the subject at University, I still learned many new things by thinking and reviewing together with them. Meanwhile, I was also impressed by their passion into the fascinating Machine Learning topics. 

After 5pm

Now you may picture Bubblers as creative, passionate, hard core. Then I forget to tell one thing, they are definitely approachable! 

At Redbubble you will never lack the fun people to hang out with. Actually, ‘have fun’ is the agreed working principle of our team when we brainstormed about how we could do better. And I am pretty sure it is same with other teams. 

Here I also knew many fun people, with whom I play foosball and badminton, watch Australian Open, have Friday night drinks, play Texas Poker, do stretching and meditation etc. There is definitely more to check out or you can start your own group to have fun.


Looking forward
In the end, I would like to thank RB for providing such an amazing opportunities, Sam and Anuj for giving valuable feedback, the whole team for being so welcoming and supportive, the culture for being so tolerant and inspiring.  

The summer is going to the end, but the memories of the fruitful period will not easily fade away, with the inspirations, laughters, excitements that I will take along all the way.  



